
# Internet Analysis

A Data Analysis project to determine the best times for internet usage by analyzing the log file provided by the user.

# User story and task

Aravind while using mobile data noticed he was facing major network fluctuations and hence wants to identify the best and worst time during a day for best internet usage based on various factors as mentioned in the next section. Analyse the log file given to better understand the situation and apply data science skills to clean, model and analyse the data to provide him answers to the questions asked in later sections of this document.

## Best conditions

- Latency: lower the better
- Jitter: lower the better
- Download: higher the better
- Upload: higher the better
- Packet Loss: 0.0%

## Analysis of days

1. Which day was the **best** in terms of **average latency**?
1. Which day was the **worst** in terms of **average latency**?
1. Which day was the **best** in terms of **average jitter**?
1. Which day was the **worst** in terms of **average jitter**?
1. Which day was the **best** in terms of **average download speed**?
1. Which day was the **worst** in terms of **average download speed**?
1. Which day was the **best** in terms of **average upload speed**?
1. Which day was the **worst** in terms of **average upload speed**?
1. Which day was the **best** in terms of **average packet loss**?
1. Which day was the **worst** in terms of **average packet loss**?
1. Which day had the **most network outages**?
1. Which day had the **least network outages**?

## Analysis of hours

1. Which hour was the **best** in terms of **average latency**?
1. Which hour was the **worst** in terms of **average latency**?
1. Which hour was the **best** in terms of **average jitter**?
1. Which hour was the **worst** in terms of **average jitter**?
1. Which hour was the **best** in terms of **average download speed**?
1. Which hour was the **worst** in terms of **average download speed**?
1. Which hour was the **best** in terms of **average upload speed**?
1. Which hour was the **worst** in terms of **average upload speed**?
1. Which hour was the **best** in terms of **average packet loss**?
1. Which hour was the **worst** in terms of **average packet loss**?
1. Which hour had the **most network outages**?
1. Which hour had the **least network outages**?

## Overall analysis

1. When would be the **best** time for **downloads** for each day?
1. When would be the **best** time for **uploads** for each day?
1. Which would be the **best day and hour for low latency** activities?
1. Which was the **most connected server**?

# Installation

## Run on Google Colab

* Click [Here](https://github.com/kaazima/Internet-Analysis-Project/blob/master/Internet_Analysis.ipynb)
* Click on *Open in Colab* button
* Click on *Copy to Drive*
* Run cells

## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/kaazima/Internet-Analysis-Project.git
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd Internet-Analysis-Project/
```

## Files

`statistics.log` - contains data provided by the user that can be used to determine the best times for internet usage. This data was generated by scheduling a cron job of running speedtest every two minutes.

`Internet_Analysis.ipynb` - contains data cleaning by parsing the log file, data analysis, and conclusions of the analysis. 
